Business Option
Choose an existing site: http://www.spcballet.org/

1. Write a summary of the aspects that are lacking from the perspective of mobile access

This a review of www.spcballet.org (St. Paul Ballet). It is an artist-led company so I suspect that 
one of the dancers built the site (since it looks like it's been made with WordPress). Overall, not a 
good user experience. It's not clear what they want you to do. There are a lot of options, too many. 
In addition, they lack any purposeful mobile strategy (the W3C Mobile Validator gave them 0%). 

The style sheets appear to be for desktops. The overall page layout has an odd ratio with the page or 
columns seemingly divided into fifths with 4/5 for body and 1/5 for sidebar. This makes it harder to 
scale down especially with all the content stuffed into the side bar. Images are too large. For example,
 the slideshow on the homepage wass cutoff when it loaded and the buttons on the slides do not work. 
 
The amount of content is overwhelming with too many images, links and words on the homepage and other pages.
It is hard to see and read all of it. The user spends too much time trying to wade through all the content 
to even decide to do something. You should not have to scroll down so much to see everything on each page.  
Menus are too small to read and click. Forms are too small and all on one page making it difficult to complete.
 Validiation is limited. 

As far as ease of development, WordPress has significant limitations. You can't change the structure of the 
html or modify the back-end of the site. And as far as technologies, there are a lot of APIs and plugins 
you can't use with it. Obviously, this choice was made for a non-developer in mind. They are non-profit but 
the overall design does not focus on donation as much as other non-profit site do. It does not leverage any
advanced device utlities. However, it does  have a cool time-lapse YouTube video of them working on their 
new studio (have to say something positive). But other than that it is mostly informational.


2. Write a summary of how you would reccomend addressing the issues, referencing online resources 
(like http://mobilepatterns.com) for industry standards or emerging tends in well-designed mobile websites.

Obviously I recommend they start by adopting a mobile strategy namely adpative design. This would be an easy way 
to be more mobile-friendly using responsive templates/css like Bootstrap for automatic device detection and scaling. 
This would be the least effort for the amount of performance gained which is key for a non-profit organization. It 
would also be easier to deploy since they wouldn't need to create a separate mobile website or app.

If they wish to have more flexibilty in development of the website, I would recommend them dropping WordPress
(for reasons sited above). Of course, this is used for convenience since a dancer can update the site content
and probably makes it easier to deploy as well. So I'm not sure they would take such advice.  

On the more technical side, they should reduce the number of embedded external resources and make them internal 
to reduce the number of requests as recommended by the W3C mobileOK Checker. In addition, pop-ups should be removed
as they are hard to deal with on a mobile devices. Also, they need to resize images especially the slideshow on
the homepage. For the contact form, they should break down the form into a series of smaller steps or subforms which 
would be easier for the user to read and fill out. Plus, add more validation for input beyond required fields. 
Foundation would be good tool to help with the forms.

They have a lot of content and images. They need to cut all of that down significantly which would be 
helpful not just for mobile but other users, too. Move it to new pages, sidebar menus like on the
Facebook app or documents like pdfs allowing the user to drill down further if they want. A good 
starting point would be identify the key needs or tasks of the mobile user like buying tickets, looking
 up class schedules, looking up events, artists or trying to find a studio location. 

Paring down the menu on the home page to items like Donate, School, Company, Events and Tickets would be a good 
start. Then remove all other content and extra selections to a sidebar menu (like the Facebook sidebar) 
found on mobilepatterns.com or to other pages. A nice example for the home page might be the Instagram: Activity 
Feed page also from mobilepatterns -see image). This allows for one nice visual to greet the user (which is important 
for ballet since it's a visual art) and then a limited  menu. Also for lists of events they could use the Evernote: 
Recent Posts format (again, mobilepatterns) which has a nice organized list with detailed information as needed. 

Looking at the business model, they should make the donation button more prominent on every page like many other
non-profit sites. In addition, making video content like the time-lapse footage more obvious because it's interesting
to users (draws them in) and informs them on how much work the artists are doing (encourages more support). 

Lastly, I would recommend integrating some of the advanced device tools such as GPS to find directions to their studio
(since both studio locations are not easy to find) or if they want to make it easier donate or buy tickets with a 
mobile device to integrate with new services like ApplePay. 





